---------------------
                          Defender of the Crown
                          ---------------------
                             Strategy guide
                        for the Macintosh version
                             by Paul Lujan

September, 1149. The assassination of the King of England has plunged the nation
into a time of darkness. Saxon and Norman lords blame each other for the king's
murder, and are gathering armies to fight each other. Worse still, the crown has
vanished. You, a brave Saxon warrior, must reunite England and restore the
crown. The Normans have several advantages, but you also have an ace up your
sleeve: Robin Hood will provide support to your cause at key times. Can you save
the kingdom?

Defender of the Crown is an unusual hybrid game, combining strategic planning in
using your armies to conquer territories with action-based scenes in jousting,
sieges, and raiding enemy castles. You must develop proficiency in many
different areas (along with a bit of luck) in order to triumph. Be careful --
the Normans are tough opponents, and although the other Saxon knights are
supposedly your allies, they're not entirely trustworthy; if you leave your
castle undefended, you might find yourself attacked from an unexpected
direction!

Defender of the Crown was originally released by Cinemaware for the Amiga in
1986, and was praised for its exceptional graphics and sound. However, the game
was released before all of the intended features could be completed; after the
success of the initial version, it was ported to a wide variety of other
systems, including the PC, NES, Macintosh, Apple IIgs, Atari ST, and Commodore
64. These ports often included new features that were not in the initial
version, so although the central gameplay concept is the same, there are often
substantial differences between the versions.

IMPORTANT NOTE: This strategy guide applies specifically to the Macintosh
version. I've noted differences from the original Amiga version in a section
below, but be aware that, as mentioned above, the different versions can play
quite differently. Although I've never played it myself, I hear that the IIgs
version is also quite similar (and in fact used the IIgs reference card for help
in writing this), but the advice here may not apply to other versions.

To play this under emulation, I highly recommend Mini vMac, which runs the game
very well. However, by default Mini vMac runs at a higher speed, so make sure to
change the speed back to 1x (Control-S, then Z), otherwise the jousting and
raiding will be way too fast!

-----------------
Table of Contents
-----------------

To find a given section, just search for S followed by the section number. This
FAQ is pretty short, though, so you probably won't need that.

1. Gameplay Overview (S1)
2. Tournaments (S2)
3. Conquest and Battles (S3)
4. Sieges (S4)
5. Raids (S5)
6. Rescuing Ladies (S6)
7. Winning and Losing (S7)
8. Tips and Strategies (S8)
9. Version Differences (S9)
10. About This FAQ (S10)

-------------------------
1. Gameplay Overview (S1)
-------------------------

First, you must select one of the four brave Saxon knights. Each knight has
different ratings for jousting, leadership, and swordplay as follows:

Saxon Knight              Jousting    Leadership  Swordplay
-----------------------------------------------------------
Wilfred of Ivanhoe        8           7           6
Wolfric the Wild          10          5           5 
Geoffrey Longsword        6           6           9
Cedric of Rotherwood      7           10          3

You will battle against three of five Norman knights. For comparison, here are
the ratings for the Normans:

Norman Knight             Jousting    Leadership  Swordplay
-----------------------------------------------------------
Brian de Bois-Guilbert    10          8           8
Edmund the Grim           5           10          8
Phillip Malvoisin         8           7           6   
Roger Falconbridge        8           8           9
Reginald Front-de-Boeuf   7           5           10

Then, you will first view the map of England. You will begin in one of the three
castles in the north of the map, along with two other Saxon lords (the Saxon
starting castles are marked with * on the map below). Three Norman lords will be
chosen, and will occupy the three castles in the south (marked with a + on the
map). As you can see, the Norman knights have a significant starting advantage
both in abilities and in having richer territories. But don't despair! You're
smarter than them, and you've got a few extra tricks available to you.

Here's a rough text representation of the map. The number in parentheses
indicates the gold income of the territory:

     *Cumbria (3)     Yorkshire (2)

     Lancashire (4)  *Nottingham (2) Lincoln-
                                     shire (3)   +Nor-
Gwynedd (2)         Leicester (2)       Cam-      folk (6)
         *Clwyd (3)          +Bucking-  bridge (5)
Glamorgan (1)  Gloucester (7) ham (8)   Essex (6)

+Cornwall (8)  Dorset (4)     Hampshire (3) Sussex (7)

Sherwood Forest is also located on the map, between Yorkshire and Nottingham.
It's not a regular territory like the rest, but if you click on it while
selecting a target for battles or raids, it will have the same effect as
choosing the "See Robin" option.

Next, your turn begins. On your turn, you may take ONE of the following actions:
* "Hold Tournament". In the tournament, knights will compete against each other
in jousting for fame and land. Winning a tournament can greatly strengthen your
position in the game. See Section 2.
* "Seek Conquest". This allows you to move your campaign army, transfer men to
and from your army, and attack new territories. See Section 3 for more details.
* "Go Raiding". This allows you to raid a castle (either Saxon or Norman) to try
to steal their treasure. See Section 5 below.
* "Buy Soldiers". This allows you to purchase new soldiers (1 gold each),
knights (8 gold each), catapults (15 gold each), or castles (20 gold each).
Everything you buy, except castles, will be placed at your home castle. When you
buy a castle, you will be prompted to choose the territory you want to put it
on. Hold down the mouse button if you want to buy a lot of soldiers at once.

You can also choose to end your turn without doing any of the above, but
generally it's a good idea to do at least something.

You can also use the "Read Map" option (under "Seek Conquest") to get various
information about the current state of England. This does not count as your
action (and indeed it's a good idea to check things before taking action!), so
you can use the "Continue" option to return to the main menu to take another
action.
* "Territory" gives you basic information about a territory, including its
current owner (if any), number of soldiers, and monthly income.
* "Spies" shows the current composition of each player's campaign army and its
location. Although the manual claims that this will cost you gold, this doesn't
actually appear to be the case.
* "Show Lords" shows the basic abilities of each lord, as well as their current
income and treasure.

Finally, you may use the "Quit/Save" option to save your game at any point,
restore a saved game, or quit.

After you finish your turn, then all of the other lords take a turn. The game
continues in this manner until you win or lose (see Section 7, "Winning and
Losing").

At the beginning of each turn, various random events may occur. These include:
* Robin gives all Saxon lords 25 gold
* Norman rogues sabotage your catapults (the message says "best catapult", but
it appears to destroy all of the catapults in your campaign army)
* Some of your troops desert to the Normans
* Viking raids kill some of your men at your home castle
* Danish raids cause you to lose one territory
* A kidnapped lady needs your help (see Section 6 below)
* German knights join your army

-------------------
2. Tournaments (S2)
-------------------

Tournaments offer you the chance to joust with other lords for fame and glory.
To start a tournament, just choose "Hold Tournament" as your action in a turn.
This costs 5 gold. Occasionally, other lords will choose to hold a tournament
during their turn, in which case you automatically join the tournament.
(Attendance is mandatory, even if you're a bad jouster and would rather skip the
tournament.) You cannot call a tournament if there already was a tournament last
turn.

In a tournament, first select your opponent. You then choose the stakes: if you
choose "Fame", then you will gain 1 leadership point from your opponent if you
win, and vice-versa if you lose. If you choose "Land", then you choose a
territory that you would like to gain if you win, and your opponent does the
same. Note that you cannot choose a home castle as the territory at stake; if
either you or your opponent has only a home castle left, then you must joust for
fame. Also, you can't go above 10 leadership points, so if you're already at 10,
there's not much point to jousting for fame.

The actual joust is pretty straightforward, but difficult. As your horse rides
towards the opponent, your lance will bounce around, and you want to keep it
focused on the center of the cross in your opponent's shield. Once your opponent
is close, click to thrust. If you've done it right, your lance will flash. Don't
click too early, otherwise you'll just get a beep! This will take some practice
to get right.

If you're close enough to the center (depending on your and your opponent's
jousting rating, and possibly also on how good your timing was), you'll
successfully knock your opponent off his horse. If not, you will likely be
unhorsed yourself, although if your opponent also has a bad jousting rating,
then it's possible you'll both miss, in which case you circle around and make
another pass (as many as necessary to decide a winner).

In some versions, if you hit your opponent's horse, your dishonorable behavior
will cause you to be stripped of all your lands. However, that doesn't appear to
be the case in this version; no matter how bad your aim is, it seems like the
worst that can happen is that you get unhorsed.

The tournament continues until:
* You lose, which ends the tournament (at least for you).
* You win 3 rounds, in which case you become the tournament champion.
* There are no opponents left (i.e., there were fewer than 3 other lords to
start with and you defeated them all). In this case, somewhat strangely, you get
the same message as when you lose.

Even with Wolfric, jousting is quite difficult! See Section 8 for strategy tips.

----------------------------
3. Conquest and Battles (S3)
----------------------------

To conquer other territories, you must move your campaign army into them. To
manage your campaign army, use the "Seek Conquest" menu option. This brings up
several possibilities:
* "Move Army" allows you to move your army from one territory to another. You
can move up to four times; after that, your move and turn ends. You can move
freely through your own territory. If you move into an unoccupied or enemy
territory, your move ends and you attempt to capture the territory. If you move
into a territory occupied by a friendly Saxon, you are given the opportunity to
seek safe passage, which allows you to pass through the territory, or to attack.
All Saxons start friendly, but over the course of the game, they become no
longer friendly; I'm not sure what triggers this (obviously, attacking them
will, but they can also become unfriendly on their own). Note that once you've
started moving your army, using "Continue" will end your turn; you can't choose
another action.
* "Transfer Men" allows you to move men between your campaign army and the
garrison in the territory. This is most useful at your home castle, so you can
pick up newly purchased troops, but you can also use it to garrison your other
territories. Transferring does not cost any action, and you can go back to the
main action menu if you've transferred but haven't yet moved. For obvious
reasons, you can't use this option if you're passing through friendly Saxon
territory.
* "Read Map" is described above.
* "See Robin" will take you to Sherwood Forest to seek Robin's aid in the coming
battle. This feature can be used up to a total of three times in the game. If
you get Robin's aid, he will give you a number of men, ranging from 5 to 50, at
the beginning of the battle. The amount seems to be greater as the game goes on,
but there may also be a random factor.

When you attempt to conquer a territory, one of the following things happens:
* If you don't have any men in your campaign army, then you immediately retreat
and your turn ends.
* If the territory is unoccupied, then you capture the territory without a
battle.
* If the territory contains a castle, then if you have a catapult, you proceed
to a siege (see Section 4, Sieges). If you do not have a catapult, then you
immediately retreat to the territory you came from and your turn ends.
* Otherwise, you begin a battle in the territory and the battle screen comes up.

Note that all territories have a certain intrinsic number of soldiers (usually
in the range 3-6) that serve as a garrison army for the territory. This number
can be seen in the "Territories" option of the "Read Map" menu. You can add to
the garrison, or transfer the garrison to your campaign army, using the
"Transfer Men" option. It appears that when a territory is conquered, its
garrison is automatically replenished. If no campaign army is present to defend
a territory, then only the garrison will fight.

In the battle screen, you see the current strength of your army and the enemy
army, and the following tactics are available:
* Ferocious Attack
* Stand & Fight (you start with this one selected)
* Bombard
* Hold
* Outflank
* Retreat!
Retreat will end the battle (after a short delay) and your army will retreat to
the territory it came from. The others can be used to change your tactics. They
are not very well documented (the Atari ST manual is the only one that has
details, but I have no idea if it's the same in this version), but here's what
I've been able to find:
* Ferocious Attack may increase your odds of winning when outnumbered, but at
the cost of more casualties. It is more effective with more knights.
* Bombard brings the catapults into the battle, so if you have more catapults
than your enemy this may be helpful (but that's pretty rare).
* Outflank claims to increase the effect of leadership (on the other hand, the
NES manual claims that Outflank is also useful when you have lower leadership
but a larger army).
* I can't find what's different between "Stand & Fight" and "Hold" at all.

In practice, though, most of these seem to have a pretty marginal effect on the
progress of the battle, so normally I just stick with the default Stand & Fight.

If you win the battle, you capture the territory. If your army is wiped out,
then you return to your home castle. It is possible for both sides to be
eliminated; in this case, the territory becomes unoccupied.

It is also possible for other lords to attack your army on their turn, in which
case the battle proceeds the same way, except you can't retreat.

--------------
4. Sieges (S4)
--------------

To conquer a territory with a castle, you must first conduct a siege. In order
to besiege a castle, you MUST have at least one catapult in your campaign army;
otherwise, you will simply retreat to the territory you came from.

When the siege begins, the siege screen is displayed. This indicates the current
strength of each army, the castle strength, and your different kinds of catapult
ammunition. A full siege lasts 8 days, and you have 6 boulders, 2 Greek fire,
and 1 disease (so you will be able to fire everything except one item). The
enemy castle starts with 90 strength. If you already have an overwhelming
advantage and want to start the battle early, you can also click the "Start
Battle" button to immediately end the siege and proceed to battle.

Once you've chosen your ammunition, you then aim and fire your catapult. Click
and hold the mouse button to pull the catapult arm down; then, when it's reached
the desired tension, release the button to send the projectile flying towards
the walls. Each projectile should be used slightly differently:
* Boulders will knock down the enemy wall, reducing its strength. In order for
the boulder to do damage, you must aim it at the top part of the (remaining)
wall. Too high and it will fly harmlessly over, and too low and it will bounce
off. As a result, you have to keep adjusting your aim after each successful hit
to aim a little lower. Each hit reduces the strength by 10, so if you have a
perfect run, in which you successfully hit with all six boulders (difficult, but
not impossible), the enemy castle strength will be reduced all the way to 30.
* Greek fire can be used to kill enemy troops. In order to do damage, it must be
fired through a hole in the wall (if it goes over the wall, it will have no
effect), but other than that, the precise position doesn't seem to matter. It
will kill approximately 10% of defending troops.
* Disease can also be used to kill enemy troops. It is extremely effective if
used properly, but difficult. Like Greek fire, disease must be sent through a
hole in the wall, and the earlier in the siege you use it, the greater effect it
has. So the best you can do is to hit the wall with a boulder first, and then
send the disease through that hole. If you do it perfectly (which will require
some practice), you can kill nearly half the enemy troops with the disease!
Note that only enemy soldiers are affected by Greek fire and disease; knights
are immune.

You can get a lot better at sieges with practice, so don't despair if you're
terrible at first. See Section 8 for some aiming tips to help you become a siege
master.

When the siege is finished (or you end it early), a regular battle begins. The
enemy will receive a boost from his remaining castle strength, but otherwise the
battle proceeds as normal.

If you conquer an enemy's home castle, they are immediately eliminated from the
game. You gain possession of all of their territories, and their home castle
becomes an ordinary (secondary) castle.

If the enemy attacks your home castle, you will also fight a siege from the
other side; since there's nothing to do on your side, it speeds up all of the
catapult firing into one action. Note that if your campaign army is in an
adjacent territory, you will have the chance to recall it to defend your home
castle. Typically, the enemy will only attack when they have an overwhelming
advantage, however, so your odds are probably pretty bad at this point. You
don't see the battle if the enemy attacks one of your secondary castles, though.

-------------
5. Raids (S5)
-------------

If you find yourself low on cash, you can try raiding enemy castles. If
successful, this can bring you a great amount of money, and a well-timed raid
can bring you a huge advantage: if you steal 100 gold from an opponent, that's
100 soldiers in your army and not his! To raid, choose "Go Raiding" and then
pick a target. It's probably a good idea to check "Show Lords" first to see who
has the biggest coffers (and also the weakest swordsmanship).

The raid takes place in two stages. First, you fight outside the castle in the
courtyard alongside one of your companions, and then you proceed into the
interior against the captain of the guard. Once you defeat an enemy, move
through the door at the right to continue; if you defeat both opponents and
reach the inside of the castle, then you steal most of your opponent's money. If
you are defeated, then you must pay a ransom (a fraction of your own money) in
order to be freed. You can also retreat by moving to the left door (in either
stage), in which case you neither gain nor lose anything, except time.

Raiding is pretty straightforward. The key is not to click too frantically, but
rather to click and hold so that you actually perform a thrust at your opponent.
Moving back and forth also seems to help a bit, but as long as you have a decent
swordplay ability, you shouldn't have too much difficulty. The overall
difficulty of the fight is determined by the difference between your swordplay
rating and your opponent's.

When selecting a target to raid, you can also choose "See Robin", in which case
he will help you in the fight. The effect of this seems to be to boost your
swordplay ability for the fight; for most lords, you probably don't need this,
but it can be a huge help with Cedric if you need to win a key raid.

Norman lords will sometimes raid you, or other Saxon lords. (I haven't seen
other Saxon lords do any raiding, though.) If you get a large amount of gold
stolen from you, raid back! They won't have had a chance to spend it yet, so you
should be able to get all that you lost and more.

-----------------------
6. Rescuing Ladies (S6)
-----------------------

Sometimes at the beginning of a turn, you will hear that a lady, a ward of one
of your Saxon allies, has been kidnapped, and you're given the chance to rescue
her. If you do, you fight a raid in the same way as above; this will take up
your turn. Note that it appears that the difficulty of the raid is determined by
the swordplay of the Saxon lord (maybe it was an inside job all along!).
Refusing to attempt a rescue will cause you to lose a whopping 3 leadership
points for your cowardice.

If you win and successfully rescue the fair maiden, then two things happen.
First, the other lord joins your cause -- all of their territories and castles
become yours, and they disappear from the game. Second, you get a surprisingly
racy love scene (at least by the standards of 1987), and she becomes your wife.
There are four possible women to rescue:

Rebecca of York
Katharine of Nottingham
Anne of Lancashire
Rosalind of Bedford

There's no difference between the four other than their picture.

In the original Amiga version, having a lady will improve your success in
battle. It's not clear if this is the case for this version; if so, it is a
small effect.

--------------------------
7. Winning and Losing (S7)
--------------------------

You lose the game if your home castle is captured.

In order to win, the following conditions must be satisfied:
- All three Norman lords must be defeated
- You must be in possession of all three Norman castles
You do not need to defeat all the Saxon lords to win, but in the late game, they
do have an annoying habit of capturing your territories, which probably includes
at least one Norman castle, so if this happens, you'll need to either capture it
back or just defeat them completely.

---------------------------
8. Tips and Strategies (S8)
---------------------------

----- What character should I choose? -----

This depends a lot on your own personal preference. Wilfred is always a solid
choice, since he's pretty good at all aspects of the game, and is probably the
best choice for a beginner. I find Geoffrey to be a good pick, since raiding is
a useful skill throughout the game, and is especially useful when you're behind
-- it doesn't matter if your enemy is getting more income than you are if you
can steal it all before he spends it. I'm not very good at jousting, but if you
are, using Wolfric and calling lots of tournaments can allow you to get lots of
territory very quickly. Cedric is probably the hardest character to play
overall; Leadership seems to generally have less of an effect in this version,
and his weak swordplay is really a disadvantage. (Rescuing a maiden with him is
very difficult, although if you're lucky it will be Wolfric's ward who gets
kidnapped, which will give you a decent chance.)

----- Strategy tips -----

* In the early game, it's critical to move quickly, since the Normans start out
with a large advantage and you need to equalize as quickly as possible. Note
that the computer generally prioritizes grabbing empty territories over occupied
territories, so you can use this to your advantage to grab prime territories,
especially since you get to move first. Also, the computer usually doesn't move
a lot of people into their army at the beginning, so if you get the chance to
attack the enemy's campaign army, do it! Not only will you get a territory from
them, but they'll have to spend a turn rebuilding, slowing them down.

* Use the Spies and Show Lords features extensively! Keep an eye on your
opponents -- if you see their campaign army is weak, attack! And if you see
their treasury is getting fat, then raid them. A well-timed raid in the early
game can be a huge swing, and in the late game, it can be necessary to prevent
your enemies from building up massive armies.

* Don't forget to ask for Robin's help before a critical battle -- the extra men
that he provides can easily make the difference in a close battle.

* If you notice that the enemy's campaign army has wandered far away from their
home castle, see if you can sneak around it to attack their home castle. This
can be a great way to rid yourself of powerful opponents and gain a lot of
territory in one fell swoop.

* Be careful of your Saxon allies! They have a nasty habit of betraying you at
the worst time. In particular, I've noticed that when I capture my second Norman
castle, I always get attacked at my home castle if I haven't left enough troops
there. So make sure that you keep a good garrison in your home castle when you
reach this point in the game. Fortunately, the computer generally doesn't attack
a castle unless it has very good odds, so usually 30 or so soldiers should be
sufficient to defend it.

* The game recommends a ratio of 3 soldiers to 1 knight when buying, but in
general this doesn't really give your knights a lot of protection. I usually end
up with closer to 10 to 1, at least until the end game when it's easier to
accumulate large numbers of knights.

----- Jousting tips -----

Jousting is difficult, but with some practice, you should be able to win
tournaments, at least with Wolfric. It's even possible with Wilfred or Cedric,
once you get enough experience.

* Obviously, pay attention to the jousting rating of your opponent; don't fight
strong opponents unless you have to. If you are fighting a strong opponent, it's
better to bet fame than land, since losing a leadership point is less harmful
than losing a key territory.

* To get the timing right, you can notice that as you ride towards your
opponent, your lance will bounce down and then up a total of three times (along
with the other jiggling it's doing, of course). The best time to strike is when
it bounces up the third time, so try to get your lance in position so it'll be
in the right place at that time. (This works perfectly for Wolfric; for other
knights, you might have to click a little earlier in order to avoid being too
late.)

* If you are using a character who's bad at jousting and expect to lose, joust
against one of your Saxon allies, so at least you're not giving leadership
points to your enemies.

----- Siege tips -----

You can definitely improve at sieges with practice and strategy, so take the
time to learn how to aim your catapult and your siege performance will get much
better. The catapult requires a fair amount of precision -- you often have to
get within a pixel or two in order to record a hit.

* The ideal strategy is to hit the wall once, then throw in disease, then hit
the wall 5 more times, and then throw in Greek fire with your last shot. Since
Greek fire doesn't depend on time like disease does, you might as well make the
gap as large as possible before throwing it in. Depending on the situation, you
might want to save your last boulder and throw Greek fire with both of your last
two shots.

* A cheap but effective tactic against a strong enemy is to follow the above
pattern with two Greek fires, and then start the battle and immediately retreat.
This will significantly weaken his army, so he'll have to either come out and
fight you outside the castle, or if he stays inside, you can repeat the tactic
again next turn.

* The best way to aim your catapult is to align the top of the basket with the
dark crossbar in the catapult. There are three parts of this crossbar: the lower
band (spotted), the middle part (vertical stripes), and the top band (solid
black). There are also two types of enemy castles, which have slightly different
ranges. The more common castle just has a large tree on the left, and here are
the alignment points for each shot:
1. a couple of pixels below the bottom of the bottom band
2. at the bottom of the bottom band, or a pixel or two above
3. at the top of the bottom band, or a couple of pixels above (this shot seems
to have the greatest range of possibilities for you to get a hit)
4. at the bottom of the top band
5. at the middle of the diagonal brace on the left
6. about 1/3 of the way down the diagonal brace on the left

Occasionally you will encounter a castle that has a waterfall on the left side
(actually this might be a thundercloud, as it was in the Amiga version, but it's
hard to tell). In this case the wall is a little farther away, so you have to
adjust your aim:
1. several pixels below the bottom of the bottom band (once the corner of the
basket is inside the diagonal bar below)
2. a pixel or two below the bottom of the bottom band
3. in the middle of the bottom band
4. a couple of pixels below the bottom of the top band
5. a couple of pixels above the top of the top band
6. at the middle of the diagonal brace on the left

----- Raiding tips -----

* In the first stage, just try to knock out the enemy quickly. Keep thrusting
while moving back and forth, and you should win without too much difficulty
(unless your swordplay rating is much worse than your opponent). Make sure to
hold the mouse button down when you thrust so you actually reach your enemy.

* The second stage can be easily beaten: just advance until you're both on the
staircase, and then you can hit your opponent without him being able to hit you
back. You might need to move forward a little to get into the right position,
but once you're there, winning is easy.