I had always wondered about this game.  I read reviews for the Super NES and PC
versions, discussing the "crisp graphics" and "smooth play control," but never
saw anything about the NES version.  Not even a review on gamefaqs!  I don't
really like games where you are up against a time limit, as I like to enjoy the
games I play and not feel pressured (there's enough of that at work).  From
reading the SNES review, I saw that you have a grand total of 60 minutes to
finish the game, so I gathered the same would apply to it's little brother on
the NES.  I thought, "Imagine getting to the later levels and realizing you
only had about 3 minutes to finish the game!"  If that happened, you would
probably never want to play the game again.

Anyway, I actually got into the game and through trial and error figured out
what I think is probably the quickest way through the game.  If you follow the
walkthrough and can make it past the tricky jumps and swordplay, you will more
than likely beat the game in under 60 minutes.  I suggest taking a little while
to get familiar with the controls, as they are quite awkward at first.  It took
me a good deal of time, but if you practice, you should have no problem with
the controls.

Thanks for reading this Walkthrough.  I reckon not too many people will lay
their eyes on this, as maybe a couple handful of people have actually played
the NES version of Prince of Persia, but if you are one of the few, drop me a
line if you discover something I missed.



==========
III. STORY
==========

Taken directly from the manual:

"It is a time of darkness.  While the Sultan is off fighting a foreign war, his
Grand Vizier JAFFAR has seized the reins of power.  Throughout the land, the
people groan under the yoke of a cruel tyrant and dream of better days."

"Only one obstacle stands between Jaffar and the throne.  An adventurer from a
foreign land, innocent of palace intrigues, you have won the heart of the
Sultan's lovely young daughter.  And in so doing, you have unwittingly made a
powerful enemy."

"On Jaffar's orders you are arrested, stripped of your sword and your
possessions and thrown into the Sultan's dungeons.  As for the Princess, Jaffar
gives her a choice and an hour to decide: Marry him--or die.  Whichever her
choice, it can bring only a throne for the Grand Vizier...a new reign of terror
for his long-suffering subjects...and death for the brave youth who might have
been...PRINCE OF PERSIA."



============
IV. CONTROLS
============

The controls to this game are complex and take awhile to master.  There are a
lot of little techniques to learn.  To make things easy, I will rewrite the
controls section from the manual:


                -----------------------------
               |                             |
               |     +                       |
               |   +++++           (*)  (*)  |
               |     +     ==  ==   B    A   |
               |           SE  ST            |
                -----------------------------


START

Press to begin play.
Press to pause and unpause during gameplay.


SELECT

Press to toggle the music on or off.


TO RUN

Press the left or right arrow on the control pad.  Release the arrow to stop.


TO CHANGE DIRECTION

Press the left or right arrow on the control pad in the direction you want to
go.


TO TAKE CAREFUL STEPS [Note: you will use this A LOT]

Press the B button and you will take a single step in the direction you are
facing.  You can use careful steps to move right up to the edge of a pit or a
suspicious-looking floor section. [Note: Also to walk through spikes]


TO JUMP UP

Press the Up arrow on the control pad.


TO JUMP FORWARD

Pressing the A button will make you jump in the direction you are facing.


RUNNING JUMP (to get over a chasm)

Back up at least two full strides from the edge.  Press the left or right arrow
to start running, then press the A button to jump.  Be careful not to press it
too early.


TO CLIMB UP ONTO A LEDGE

Stand facing the ledge and press the Up arrow on the control pad.  If
necessary, use careful steps to position yourself below the ledge.


TO CLIMB DOWN FROM A LEDGE

Carefully walk to the edge and turn around.  Press the Down arrow on the
control pad.  If you press the Down arrow while holding either the A or B
button, you will hang from the ledge.  When you let go of the button, you let
go of the ledge.  To pull yourself back onto the ledge, press the Up arrow.


TO HANG FROM A LEDGE

Any time you jump or fall within reach of a ledge, you can grab onto it by
pressing the A or B button.


TO CROUCH

Press the Down arrow on the control pad.  Release it to stand up.


TO PICK SOMETHING UP

Stand in front of the object you wish to pick up and crouch down by pressing
the Down arrow.


SWORD FIGHTING

Your sword will automatically be drawn when you encounter a Guard.

To ATTACK, use the A button.
To BLOCK, use the B button or Up arrow on the control pad.



==============
V. WALKTHROUGH
==============

[PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS VERSION OF THE GAME, THE NES VERSION, DIFFERS FROM ALL
OTHER VERSIONS OF THE GAME.  IF YOU ARE PLAYING THE PC VERSION OR ANYTHING
OTHER THAN THE NES GAME, PLEASE DO NOT USE THIS GUIDE]

The key to making it through the game in the required 60 minutes is not only
your speed, but the ability to make accurate jumps.  If you miss a jump you
either plummet to your death or have to retrace your steps back to where you
missed the jump.  The following walkthrough will enable you to eliminate any
unnecessary wandering around and reach the Princess in under an hour, assuming
you don't meet your untimely demise along the way.

Also, either familiarize yourself with the controls or refer to the Controls
section above, as I will not elaborate on most of the moves in the walkthrough.

Remember, time is of the essence (whatever that means).  If you are using this
walkthrough to blow through the game, I suggest pausing the game each time you
need to read a section (time doesn't count down while the game is paused) and
to also read ahead one section just so you know what is in the next room and
you can prepare for it.

I put the Password I got after the end of the level after that level in the
walkthrough.  You will probably get a different Password, depending on the time
it took you to finish the level.  Remember that I have played through the game
a couple times and knew exactly where to go while doing this walkthrough, so if
you feel you took a little longer to make it through the level than you should
have, my level Passwords will start you out with a comfortable amount of time
to spare.

Good luck!




=-=-=-=-=-=
A. Level 1
=-=-=-=-=-=

-You start the game at the very bottom of the dungeon, with the gate closing
behind you.  Lower yourself to the bottom path, then run over to the right
against the wall.  The floor should have fallen out in the middle.  Lower
yourself down to the next room, hanging from the ledge, as the fall will take
away some energy if you fall too far.

-When you land, run left and climb up to enter the next room.

-Run to the left and jump over the gap.  Now step on the pressure plate to open
the gate and go left into the room.

-In this room, climb down to the level below you and trip the pressure plate on
the right.  Now jump over the gap to your left and climb up to the next room.

-Run left without stopping (the floor drops out) and enter the next room.

-Step on the pressure plate upon entering the room.  Now run and jump across
the gap WITHOUT landing on the pressure plate on the other side (it will close
the gate you just opened).  Climb up the wall and into the next room.

-Jump across the gap and continue to run left into the next room.

-Climb down to the bottom and grab the SWORD.  Now climb back up to where you
came into the room and go back right.

-Continue right for several screens (taking the top path) and you will
eventually get to the screen that you fell down to from the starting screen
(you will see the rubble on the floor from the platform that fell).  Continue
right to your first sword fight.

-Remember, A to attack, B or Up to block.  A sound strategy for sword play is
to block your opponents thrust, then immediately attack while he is
off-balance.  If you just want to attack, I found that if you strike the moment
the enemy makes a move towards you, you can usually get in a jab.  This first
Guard is easy.  Hit him 3 times to do him in.

-Run right to the next room.  You will see a closed door.  Climb up on the
ledge in the left of the room to activate the pressure plate which opens the
door.  Go through the door to exit the bottom level of the dungeon.

Your Password is: 84308323



=-=-=-=-=-=
B. LEVEL 2
=-=-=-=-=-=

-From the starting point, run left into the next room.

-Keep running, so you don't fall through the floor, then defeat the Guard. 
Continue left to the next room.

-You'll see a Potion below you that will restore any lost energy.  You need to
fall through the floor to get to it.  Even if you don't need it, fall through
the floor anyway.  Now climb back up and use careful steps to move through the
spikes (you can see the tiny holes in the floor where the spikes will come up).
 Now climb up to the top ledge and continue left.

-Now you need to make a running jump over to the ledge on the left.  Remember
that you need to hit the A button a little before you reach the end of the
platform because of the slow response of the controls, then when you are
jumping you will have to press A or B to grab onto the ledge you are jumping
to.  When you reach it, climb up into the next room.

-Continue up, then left into the next room.

-Another Guard!  Defeat the Guard with 3 hits and continue left, triggering the
plate that opens the gate into the next room.

-If you need more energy, drop down to the Potion on the floor, then continue
to the next room on the left.  If you don't need the Potion, just run left,
triggering the gate, and head out through the gate.

-If you took the low route, use careful steps to get past the spikes, then
climb up and go left to fight another Guard.  As with all Guard, 3 hits does
him in.

-Walk left into the next room but DO NOT DRINK THE Potion.  It will take away 1
life bar.  Climb up the wall and left into the next room.

-Use careful steps to get to the edge of the ledge and jump across the gap. 
You will be greeted by another Guard.  Do him in and continue left to the next
room.

-Upon entering this room, climb up the ledges into the room above you.

-When you climb up into this room, careful step to the right once, turn around,
and jump up to the ledge.  Now run to the right and grab the Potion.  It will
increase your strength gauge by 1!  Now carefully work your way back down,
lowering yourself carefully onto the spikes by hanging from the edge then
dropping down (the spikes won't hurt you this way), then climb back down to the
room below you where you came from.

-Climb to the bottom, then go left to the next room.

-Run to the left, jumping over the holes in the ground where the spikes come
out, and enter the next room.

-In this room, jump across the gap, climb up one level, and continue left to
the next room.

-Run to the wall, then press Up to jump and hit your head on the tile above
you.  It will fall down, allowing you to climb up into the next room.

-When you have climbed into the room, take 1 careful step left, tap right to
face the right, then press Up to jump up to the next ledge.  Now run right a
little bit, but don't enter the next room.  Turn back around and make a running
jump over to the small ledge on the right of the screen.  It seems like a real
long distance but it is makeable, as long as you hold Up and press A or B to
grab the ledge when you reach it.  There is a pressure plate on the ledge that
opens the door to Level 3.  From the ledge, face right and tap the A button to
jump back to the right.  Try for the top ledge, but if you miss it you should
be able to grab the next ledge down.  Run past the torch to the room to the
right.

-Go in the door to get up to Level 3.

Your Password is: 63137010



=-=-=-=-=-=
C. LEVEL 3
=-=-=-=-=-=

You will be introduced to your first Skeleton in this level.

-Start by walking right into the next room.

-Climb up 2 ledges, jump over to the right, then climb up onto the ledge into
the next room.

-Continue all the way up, then jump right, over the gap, into the next room.

-You will now have 3 jumps to make in this room.  Use careful steps to get to
the edge, then make your first jump.  Use careful steps again and jump over to
the next edge, where you will land on a pressure plate.  Now for the hardest
one.  Use careful steps again to get to the right edge of the pressure plate,
then jump into the next room on the right but get ready to grab onto the ledge
in the next room as you are jumping...

-Assuming you made the jump, walk past the torches and stop under the first
purple tile above the torches.  Jump up and hit your head on it to make it
fall, then climb up into the room.

-Go right into the next room.

-The Slicers you see are fairly easy to get by.  Just wait for an opening and
run through them (they won't cut your feet).  Now climb up to the top and grab
the Potion (wonder who left that lying around!), which will raise your strength
gauge to 5 bars.  Climb back down and go left, past the Slicers, back into that
room.

-Run left and fall into the gap (don't bother lowering yourself down) to land
by those 2 torches.

-Walk to the left edge of the platform and jump into the room to the left,
making sure to grab onto the edge of the platform in the next room.

-You should be on that small ledge with the pressure plate, which just opened a
gate about 3 rooms to your left.  You might want to read the next 3 paragraphs
of this walkthrough, as you will have to get to the gate before it closes. 
Quickly, but carefully, work your way left, jumping over the gaps, but don't
run into the next room.  Careful step into the next room.

-Now quickly jump over the gap and run to the left to the next room, but be
sure to keep running when you enter the next room because...

-...you have to make a running jump over a big gap.  Do this, grabbing the
ledge on the other side and climb up.  Now start running to the left again and
run into the next room.

-Keep running and make the jump over to the left before the gate comes down. 
If you made it in time, you can enter that room.  If the gate has already shut,
you have to go ALL THE WAY BACK to where you triggered the pressure plate.

-If you need energy, grab the Potion.  Otherwise, keep moving left to the next
room, but keep running as you enter the room.

-When you run into this room, stop just after getting past the falling tiles. 
You will see the first Skeleton Guard of the game.  He is a little tougher than
the normal Guards.  Just remember, block his thrust, then counterattack
immediately.  This will almost always get you a hit.  Do this 3 times then walk
left into the next room.

-Get past the Slicer and work your way down to the room below.

-Run all the way to the right and step on the pressure plate to open the exit
door below you.  Now head back to the left, and up into the room you were just
in.

-Climb up then go right, past the Slicer and into the next room.

-The next part is tricky.  Walk right until you get to the ledge.  I've tried
climbing down the ledge into the room below from this side, but can never do
it, so here's what I did.  Stand on ledge and jump over to the other side.  You
will probably get carried into the next room, but just use a careful step back
to the left, back into the room.  Now, standing on this right ledge, use a
careful step so you actually step off the ledge, but as you are falling, you
should grab onto the ledge on the left.  Now you can ease your way down into
the next room.

-Run to your left, past the falling tile, and exit into the next room on the
left.

-Enter the door to proceed to the next level.

Your password is: 19604020



=-=-=-=-=-=
D. LEVEL 4
=-=-=-=-=-=

-Start by running to the right, stepping on the pressure plate, then running
left to the next room.

-Run left and take the lower path, then step on the pressure plate to open the
gate into the next room on the left.

-In this room, run left without stopping until you reach the gate.  A floor
tile should have fallen when you ran over it.  Since you are on the left of the
hole, take a couple careful steps until you are actually falling into the hole,
then immediately hold down the B button as you are falling.  You cannot see
yourself, but you are actually clinging to the ledge.  Now release the button
to fall safely to the room below.

-Go to your right, where you will have a swordfight with another Guard.  After
disposing of him, you will want to go back to the left and into the next room.

-You will now see a huge gap.  The ledge on the other side has a pressure plate
on it you need to get to.  The jump is makeable (you will have to get a running
start from the previous room), but it is much easier to jump straight up and
grab the ledge above you which brings you up into the next room, then walk to
the left and drop back down to land on the pressure plate.

-Now jump straight up to climb back up into the room above.  Stand on the far
left end of the ledge you just climbed to and jump straight up to knock a floor
tile loose.  Now climb up and over into the room on the left.

-Avoid the slicer and grab the Potion.  It will increase you strength gauge
again by 1 unit.  Go back into the room on the right.

-Get down to the lower level in this room by using the method I explained
earlier (careful steps off the ledge, then quickly holding B to grab the ledge
on the right).  Walk right then climb down into the next room.

-Now you will be going right for a few rooms.  In the third room there will be
a Potion on the bottom if you need more energy.  In the next room to the right
there will be another Potion at the bottom.  Avoid it for now unless you are
really low on energy.  Get by the slicer where you will meet another Guard. 
Beat the Guard (if you saved the Potion, grab it now if you lost energy during
the fight) and go right into the next room.

-Climb up into the next room.

-Go right into the next room.

-In this room you will want to go right into the next room, but be careful of
the spikes near the end of the hall.  You can either jump over them (you'll see
the little holes in the ground) of use careful steps to walk through them.

-Another Guard!  Run him through with your steel and proceed right to the next
room.

-If you need more energy, there is another Potion in this room.  Otherwise,
keep going into the next room.

-Climb up the wall and continue into the next room.

-Lower yourself down to where the Slicer is and move past it back into the room
to your left.

-Go step on the pressure plate then go back to the right, but remember not to
run into the slicer upon returning to that room.

-Run past the slicer and climb back up to the top and back to the left into
that room again.

-You will see a gateway that wasn't there before.  Get a running start and leap
through the gateway.  As you are leaping through you will see a Shadow of
yourself run out of the gateway and to the right.  Ignore him for now (you'll
run into him later) and go left to the next room.

-Now run left through this room and into the next room where the exit door
awaits.  Quickly get through it to escape this unorthodox level.

Your Password is: 73339738



=-=-=-=-=-=
E. LEVEL 5
=-=-=-=-=-=

-Start this level by running to your left and stepping on the pressure plate. 
Now run back to your right and into the next room.

-Climb up to take on the Guard.  Beat him then climb up into the room above.

-Climb up to the middle tier and walk right to the next room.

-Carefully work your way past the 2 slicers.  Before you can get to the Potion
at the top, your Shadow from the previous level beats you to it and slugs it
down.  All you can do is watch as he escapes before you can get to him.  Just
climb to the top and move left into the next room.  Along the way you should
have triggered a pressure plate that opens the gate in the next room.

-Move past the gate and left into the next room.

-There's a huge gap here, but you don't have to cross it.  Stand on the ledge
and turn around so you are facing right, then push Down to drop down to the
next room.

-You should have landed on a ledge with a Potion.  Grab it to restore your
energy, then drop down to the bottom.  Go step on that pressure plate on the
left side of the room again, then run back to the right into the next room.

-Climb up to the upper left ledge and go back left into the room and on the
ledge where you just grabbed the Potion.

-Make the running jump over the chasm then go left into the next room before
the gate closes.

-Slay the Guard and continue left to the next room.

-Yet another Guard!  Beat him and keep going left, triggering the pressure
plate to open the gate.

-Step on the pressure plate and lower yourself down to drink the health Potion
(who the heck is leaving these hanging around??).  Now you have a choice.  Your
Strength Gauge will only extend to a total of 5 bars.  If you are at less than
5 bars, lower yourself into the next room where you will grab a Potion to add
another bar, then go back up.  If you already found the 2 Potions in the
earlier levels that extended your bar, then continue left into the next room.

-Before moving any further in this room, you can probably tell that the floor
will be dropping out from you in that area near where you entered.  You CANNOT
run across it...you will quickly fall to your doom.  Jump over the tile and
continue to the next room to your left, running over the pressure plate in the
process.

-Use careful steps to tiptoe through the spikes, then jump over the gap and
into the next room.

-Enter the door to go up to the next level in the castle.

Your Password is: 41056213



=-=-=-=-=-=
F. LEVEL 6
=-=-=-=-=-=

This is actually one of the quickest levels in the game.

-Start by stepping on the pressure plate to your right, then go left into the
next room.

-Move left, either jumping or using careful steps to get past the 2 sets of
tiles containing spikes, and continue on into the next room.

-In this room you will run over the pressure plate to open the gate, then jump
over the gap.  Proceed slowly into the next room, as there is a loose tile in
there that you will not want to run onto.

-Jump over the loose tile, then do away with the Guard.  Proceed into the next
room.

-Run left into the next room.

-You will see a large gap with a gate on the other side.  Quickly step on the
pressure plate...you will notice your Shadow standing on the other side of the
now-open gate.  Go back into the room on the right, but be careful not to run
into that room or you will fall into the gap there.  From this room, get a
running start and run back into the room to the left and make the long jump to
the other side.  You will sail across, but that prick Shadow steps on the
pressure plate on the other side to close the gate on you (you wouldn't have
reached the ledge anyway).  Your doppleganger silently watches as you plunge
into the abyss.  BEFORE YOU PRESS ANYTHING, READ THE FOLLOWING:

This is the end of the level!  You will get a Password, but get ready to do
something.  As the next level starts, you will actually be continuing your fall
from the previous level.  Quickly grab onto the ledge as you are falling or you
will end up a pancake a couple levels down.

Your Password is: 42064425



=-=-=-=-=-=
G. LEVEL 7
=-=-=-=-=-=

-Hopefully you are standing safely on the ledge that you grabbed as you
"dropped in" to this level.  You must now make a long jump across that huge gap
over to the ledge on the right.  You can do it from a standing jump but you
will have to grab onto the ledge and hoist yourself up.  Now go right into the
next room.

-You are confronted by a Guard (you've probably noticed they now have 4 units
of energy).  Waste him and proceed past the slicer and into the next room.

-Go right into the next room.

-Climb up into the room above.

-Run past the slicer to the right and into the next room.

-Out-duel the Guard here and continue into the next room.

-Grab the Potion to regain some energy, then climb down into the room below.

-Run right, through 2 rooms, running past a pressure plate in the process.

-You should now be in a room standing on a ledge on the upper left.  This part
is tricky.  Go to the edge and turn facing the left so you can lower yourself
down, but as you are falling, be prepared to grab the ledge at the bottom of
the room.  Grab the ledge and pull yourself up.  Now you will want to lower
yourself again, this time into the next room.  Be prepared again, as you are
falling, to grab onto the ledge in the next room or you will end up skewered on
the spikes below.

-Now that you made it down here safely, walk left into the next room.

-This room is kind of tricky, as there are 2 gaps you have to cross.  There are
2 ways to make it across them without falling into one of them.  You can either
make a running jump over the first one, grabbing onto the ledge on the other
side of the gap as you are falling, then hoist yourself up or you can do it
this way.  Upon entering the room, take a couple careful steps so you are
standing directly in front of that torch on the wall.  Now press A and you
should jump onto the narrow platform.  Press A again and you are past the
second gap.  I think the second way is much easier.  Now move left into the
next room.

-There are 2 beds of hidden spikes in this room.  Either careful step your way
through them or leap over them, then proceed into the next room.

-Run over to where the debris is on the floor, then climb your way up into the
room above.

-Jump left, over the gap, into the next room and prepare for an immediate Guard
battle.

-After finishing the Guard, run left and past the Slicers into the next room.

-Stand on the pressure plate and the gates will open, but don't move through
them just yet.  Notice on the floor in the middle of the 2 gates there is
another pressure plate (the tile is very slightly raised).  DO NOT step on that
one on your way through or it will close the gates and you will have to climb
up and back around to this area.  Instead, carefully jump over the plate and
continue left into the next room.

-Grab the Potion here and the screen will flash.  Now careful step to the
ledge, face the right, and lower yourself down into the next screen.

-Wow, it seems like you're falling in slow motion!  That's because the Potion
you just guzzled made you light as a feather.  Now go step on the pressure
plate on the left side of the room.  Run through the gate on the right that
just opened and you will step on the pressure plate that opens the exit to the
next level.  You can leave now, but I suggest the falling: run to the right
into the next room, then right one more room and you will find a Potion that
actually increased your strength gauge to 6 bars!  Grab it, then run back 2
screens left and get into that door to move up to the next level in the palace.

Your Password is: 33010223



=-=-=-=-=-=
H. LEVEL 8
=-=-=-=-=-=

Something funny happens here...you start the level with only 5 bars in your
strength gauge.  I'm not sure why, but if anyone reading this walkthrough
starts with all 6, email me whether or not you know why you still have all 6. 
It might have something to do with running over those pressure plates after
drinking the Potion, but I doubt it.

This level is one of the longest, but it isn't too hard.  Plus, one of the
coolest things happens at the end of the level.

-From the start of this level, climb up to the top path and run left over a
falling tile and into the next room, but be prepared for an immediate Guard
battle.

-The Guards are getting quicker now that you are in the later levels, but you
should be used to the techniques needed to defeat them.  After besting this
one, you will have to make a running jump to the left, running over a pressure
plate, and leap over to the ledge on the left where you will have to grab it
while falling.  Hoist yourself up and enter to the left.

-If you need some energy, guzzle the Potion, then jump over to the ledges on
the left and carefully lower yourself down into the next room.

-Go right, past the slicer, into the next room.

-Move right, either jumping over or careful stepping your way by the spikes,
and continue into the next room.

-Head right into the next room.

-Continue right, passing more spikes, to the next room.

-More of the same here.  Go right, past some floor debris, and into the next
room.

-Jump over the spikes and continue to the next room.

-Finally, something challenging.  Beat the Guard and go to the next room.

-If you need some energy, climb up and drink the Potion.  Now continue on to
the right into the next room and then run through the room after that.

-Now you should be standing near a ledge.  Your goal here is to get up to the
ledge above you, so you will have to first make a running jump and grab the
ledge to your right (your momentum actually carries you into the room below,
but if you grab the ledge in time you will climb back up).  Now climb the
ledges to the top and make a standing jump over to the top left ledge, grabbing
it as you fall.  Now that you are safely across, climb up into the room above
you.

-Grab the Potion for some energy and climb back down to the room below.

-Go left into the next room.

-Duke it out with another towel-head, then run to the left, tripping the
pressure plate to open the gate and jump over the gap to the left and enter to
the next room.

-Run past the slicer into the next room.

-Now you will have to make a running jump over to the left.  Sometimes you can
make it without having to grab the ledge, but be prepared to nonetheless.  Now
move into the next room.

-If you need more energy you can climb up into the room above you for a Potion.
 If you don't, make the long leap across the gap (triggering the pressure plate
before you jump) and into the next room.

-Step on the pressure plate then move left, past the slicer, and over to
another Guard battle.  If you beat him quickly, you can proceed left before the
gate closes, but don't rush.  If the gate has closed by the time you beat him,
just go right and step on the pressure plate behind the slicer again, then go
back left through the door into the next room.

-You will have to make another long jump here, but make sure you hit the
pressure plate right before you jump to open the gate on the other side.  Grab
the ledge as you are falling and scramble up and left into the next room.

-Continue right, past the slicer and into the next room.

-Step on the pressure plate and you will see the exit door below you open up. 
Now you just have to get to it!  Go back into the room you just came from.

-Continue right, past the slicer, into the next room.

-You now face a closed gate, but wait!  A little white mouse comes out of
nowhere on the other side of the room and triggers the pressure plate that
opens the gate...talk about luck!  Lower yourself to the bottom and go left.

-Run left, jumping over the spikes that pop up, into the next room.

-Now you can exit to level 9.

Your Password is: 96661143



=-=-=-=-=-=
I. LEVEL 9
=-=-=-=-=-=

Only 4 more levels to go!

-Start by moving left into the next room.

-Step on the pressure plate right as you enter the room, but stop for a second.
 There is a hidden pressure plate about 3 tiles in front of the slicer.  If you
touch it, it will close the gate behind the slicer, so jump over that space,
move past the slicer, and continue to the next room.

-Climb up into the room above you.

-Jump across the gap to your right and continue right into the next room.

-Run right, past the sealed exit door, and into the next room.

-Get by the slicer, defeat the Guard, and continue to the next room.

-Climb up to the Potion, drink it for some energy, then climb up into the room
above.

-Climb to the top of this room, then run really fast to the right to avoid the
falling floor tiles.  When you enter the next room on the right, prepare for a
Guard fight.

-After slaying the Guard, go to the right and you will see a pressure plate on
the floor.  You have to move quickly after stepping on it.  Step on it and run
to the left, past the slicer and into the next room.

-Now jump over the gap and then jump OVER the pressure plate in front of the
gate (if you step on that pressure plate, the gate will close).  If you did
this quick enough the gate should still be open and you can continue into the
next room.

-In here you will want to jump over to the ledges and climb up to the room
above you.

-Climb up to the closed gate.  Jump over to the small ledge to your right,
which will activate the pressure plate opening the gate, then jump back to your
left and go to the next room.

-You will now have to fight a Guard on a long bridge.  Show him who's boss and
continue on to the left.

-If you need the Potion (more energy) in this room, go down and get it.  You
will need to exit this room through the upper-left ledge, but make sure you are
running as you enter the room.

-The running jump you have to make upon entering this room is one of the
longest in the game.  You should barely make it over to the ledge, where you
will have to grab the edge with your hands and hoist yourself up (don't worry
if you don't make it, just go back one screen, climb up to the top and try the
jump again).  When you lift yourself up to the ledge it will activate a
pressure plate.  Now lower yourself down to the bottom of the room and exit to
the left.

-You will probably need some energy at this point, so climb up to the Potion,
then move left into the next room.

-Run over to the big Potion in this room and chug it down to increase your
strength gauge up to 6 bars again.  Now go back right into the room you were
just in.

-Go to the bottom of the room then drop down into the room below you.

-Now work your way to the bottom of this room and climb down into the room
below you again.

-You will see a slicer in this room.  Run by it to trip the pressure plate
(this plate opens the exit door), then run back past it.  Climb to the ledge
above the pressure plate and run to the right, into the next room.

-Keep running right, past the slicer, into the next room.

-Defeat the green Guard here and move on to the next room on the right.

-Lower yourself off the ledge and down to the floor where you can enter the
door to the next level.

Your Password is: 86579648



=-=-=-=-=-=
J. LEVEL 10
=-=-=-=-=-=

Again, for some reason, you will start this level with only 5 energy bars
instead of 6.

This level is really short, but you will have to put your sword-fighting to
good use.

-Start by moving to the right and climbing up to the upper-right platform, then
walk into the room to the right.

-There is a pressure plate on the floor right as you enter.  Step on it, then
go back into the room you just left.

-Head left and you will notice that the gate in the upper-left corner is now
open.  Quickly get up there and through the gate.

-A Guard is here to greet you.  These guys are quick now and have 5 energy
bars.  Beat him, walk over to the left and climb up into the room above.

-Step on the pressure plate in this tiny room, then climb back down to the
previous room.

-The gate to the left is now open, so step through it.

-Hey look, another Guard.  Wax this chump then walk left to step on a pressure
plate that opens the door below you.  Lower yourself down and enter the door to
exit this short, but sweet level.

Your Password is: 76458537



=-=-=-=-=-=
K. LEVEL 11
=-=-=-=-=-=

If you haven't noticed already, the rooms are gold rather than that dull
bluish-purple...a sure sign that you are nearing the top of the palace.

-From the start, climb up the wall and into the room on the right.

-Right as you enter this room, climb up through the gap into the room above
you.

-If you need some energy, run to the left into the next room to get a Potion
then come back to this room.  Now go to the right into the next room, but don't
run into it.

-Get the Potion if you need some energy, then climb down into the hole to the
room below.

-Go right, past the slicer, then take on the Guard.  After beating him, run
quickly to the next room.

-There should be a pile of debris on the floor as you enter the room.  There is
a small area directly underneath the debris that has a pressure plate.  Lower
yourself down to there and step on the plate.  You will notice that the gate
opened.  Don't move yet.  There is a hidden pressure plate in front of the gate
that will close it before you get through, so here's what you do.  Standing on
the pressure plate that opened the gate, turn so you are facing the right.  Now
tap the A button and you will jump across the gap and land on a safe tile.  Now
tap A again and you will sail safely past the gate.  Continue to the next room.

-Now run quickly to the right, as the floor tiles will start dropping out, and
go through the gate into the next room.

-Get up to the top level where you will do battle with another Guard.  I
noticed that since the Guards are quicker now, if you get a hit on them you can
usually immediately follow it up with another blow, as they will try to lunge
forward.  I've actually gotten 5 straight hits on these Guards, so if your
timing is on, you should be able to kill these guys pretty thoroughly.  After
beating him, walk to the ledge and lower yourself down to the very bottom of
the narrow passage.  Now use careful steps to walk into the next screen to your
right.

-Keep using careful steps to get by the spikes, then jump over the small gap. 
Now stand on the ledge and jump up to climb to the top level.  Run past the
closed exit door into the next room.

-Climb up to the top level where you will fight another Guard.  This guy is
tough, but can be beaten like all the others.  After he's taken care of, walk
right into the next room.

-Run across the floor and a tile will fall.  Climb down to the bottom and step
on the pressure plate which opens the exit door.  Climb out of there and go
back left to the previous room.

-Run through this room into the next room.

-The open door awaits you.  Take it to the next level.

Your Password is: 78598244



=-=-=-=-=-=
L. LEVEL 12
=-=-=-=-=-=

For some reason the walls are back to that bluish-purple color.

Anyway, if you like climbing and making those really long jumps, this level
will probably be your favorite.  You have to deal with not only the jumps, but
falling tiles and spikes.

-Start by running right into the next room.

-Climb straight up the middle row of platforms and up into the room above.

-In this room, climb up two platforms to the opening, then careful step to your
left to cross the spikes, but stop so you are still standing on the spikes, as
the small bridge to your left will drop out.  Now tap A to leap left into the
next room.

-Make a running leap to cross the wide gap and grab the ledge on the other
side, then hoist yourself up.  Climb up into the room above.

-Climb up two platforms, then stand on the ledge and jump the gap over to the
right side.  Here is where you will have to make the leap of faith that is
mentioned in the manual.  Stand on the ledge on the right side of the gap you
just jumped over and face to the right.  Now, start running to the right and
make a running jump at the last second into the next room and get ready to grab
onto the ledge.

-If you made the jump successfully, congratulate yourself, but not for too
long, as there is an even harder jump yet to come.  Now, before moving any
further, notice the jump you will have to make now.  It doesn't look bad, but
be aware that the last tile in the center platform will fall away.  If you
stand too close to the right ledge, it will fall and the jump will be
impossible, so just stand as far to the left of the center platform as you can
and make a running jump to the right.  The tile will fall as you run over it
but you will be able to leap from it right before it falls.  Grab the wall as
you are falling then climb up and walk right into the next room.

-Climb up into the next room.

-Continue climbing, then carefull step left into the next room.

-Stand on the ledge and jump over to the left, grabbing the ledge and hoisting
yourself up.  Climb up to the next platform and run left over the falling
bridge and into the next room.

-Make a running jump over to the left, then climb up into the next room.

-In this room, climb up to the top and then up into the next small room above.

-You will see another Skeleton Guard above.  Worry about him later.  Step on
the pressure plate then climb back down into the room below.

-Now run left past the gate (the gate will stay open, so don't worry about it
closing on you) and into the next small room.

-Stand as close to the wall as you can, then turn and face right.  You should
only be able to see a small portion of yourself (to get in that far, careful
step as far to the left as you can, then press Up to jump straight up...when
you land you will actually be further inside the alcove...now face the right). 
This is the hardest jump you will have to make in the game.  I only seem to
make it about 50% of the time.  Just run right into the next screen and jump to
the right at the last possible second.  If you nailed it, you should be able to
hoist yourself up and move right into the next room.

-Be careful in this room.  Both tiles of the bridge will fall if you walk onto
them.  You can either run or jump over them.  Now stand on the far right ledge
and climb up to the screen above.

-Now jump straight up to bump into the tiles above and one should break free. 
Climb up on the left side of the newly-made gap then run left across the bridge
(a tile will fall as you run) and into the next room.

-Climb up to the top and run across the bridge (a tile will drop as you are
running) and you will be confronted by that Skeleton Guard.  I'm guessing this
guy is one of Jaffar's right-hand-men (or skeletons), as he is extremely quick.
 It's hard to use the block and parry on him since he is so quick, so you might
just want to attack him straight up.  Hopefully you are using an emulator, so
you can save the game before the fight (or even during, after each successful
blow, if you like to cheat :)).  Defeat this bag of bones and run left across
the bridge (don't worry, none of the tiles will drop) into the next room.

-Now stand on the ledge and jump straight across over to the left, then cross
into the next room, which leads to the abrupt end of this level.

Your Password is: 20086629



=-=-=-=-=-=
M. LEVEL 13
=-=-=-=-=-=

This level begins right where the left one ended.

-Run all the way left, through 2 rooms, until you reach the wall, then climb up
into the room above.

-Wow, there's the exit door, but it is closed.  Climb to the top platform, then
leap right into the next room to...

JAFFAR!!

-Here he is, the Grand Vizier himself...and only 4 life bars!  He looks like
just another one of the Guards, but trust me, it's Jaffar.  Cross the bridge
(the first tile will fall) and prepare for battle.

-Jaffar is actually easier than that Skeleton you just fought.  You can either
go after him or use the block and parry technique.  Either way, 4 hits and he's
done!

-You can go right into the next room, where you will see a HUGE gap (remember
when you entered this level there was all that debris on the floor?).  You
cannot make it across, but it is just something of interest.  Wonder what's on
the other side?

-After beating Jaffar, careful step into the room to your left and jump over to
the exit door.

Your Password is: 43279639



=-=-=-=-=-=
N. LEVEL 14
=-=-=-=-=-=

This level is actually the easiest in the game.

-Walk over to the pressure plate on the right and step on it.  Now just run to
the left, through several rooms stepping on the pressure plates as you run, and
eventually you will reach the Princess!

Take her in your arms and bask in the glow of victory.  Jaffar lies dead and
the kingdom of the Sultan is saved, thanks to you, the Prince of Persia!