-----------------
Getting Started
-----------------
A. Controls
B. Strategy & Basic Hints

---------------------
Index - Walkthrough
---------------------
1. Level 1 - Castle
2. Level 2 - Toy land
3. Level 3
4. Level 4
5. Level 5
6. Level 6
7. Level 7

---------------
Miscellaneous
---------------
I. Special Items
II. Secrets

---------------
A. Controls
---------------

Control Pad: 
Right/Left arrows - Moves your Character (Bub) in whichever direction pressed.
Up/Down arrow - Press and hold before landing on a rainbow so it does not
break.

A Button - Makes Character Jump
B Button - Casts Rainbow

Start Button - Pauses game
Select Button - N/A

-------------
B. Strategy
-------------

1. Do not expect that this game is a side scroller.  There is no side scrolling
at all in the game.  Its more of a Horizontal Scroller in which you jump from
platform to platform as the stage progresses always trying to reach the top
more or less a Ice Climbers-type scenario.  Also avoid being hit.  Once you're
hit you're dead.

2. First of all try and Collect the 7 different color jewels to spell the word
"RAINBOW".  This can be accomplished by shooting a rainbow over an enemy's head
and JUMPING on the rainbow causing it to fall on him.

3. Try to collect 3 basic items to help your character through his adventure.
the items are: 

An Orange Jar - Fires rainbows at 2x the normal speed.
A Purple Jar - Fires 2 rainbows instead of one.
A Pair of Red Sneakers - 2x your regular speed.

The effects of these 3 items remain on your character until you die, unlike any
of the other power-ups found in the game. And note the effects of these items
do not multiply by how many you have collected, so don't go dying trying to 
grab another purple jar because you still will only be firing 2 rainbows.

4. For a higher overall score, after you collect the 7 jewels per stage hit the
enemies head on to get items that give you higher points than jewels.

5. If you cannot collect the word "RAINBOW" on 1 single level do NOT worry
because you still have the oppurtunity to collect the rest of the jewels on the
next few stages up until you reach the boss.

6. Everytime you complete the LEVEL with the word "RAINBOW" spelled you will 
recieve a BIG JEWEL that corresponds with the letter.  For example when you
beat the first level with the word "RAINBOW" spelled out you will get the Big
Red Jewel.

7. Also when you beat the first level with "RAINBOW" spelled you will also get 
the selection of either Talking to whoever gave you the jewel or choosing a 
treasure box.  My suggestion is to talk to the person standing there because
not only are they there to help you understand the story, they at times offer
some comic relief.  Although if you prefer you can choose to open a Treasure
Box.

8. If you chose the Treasure Box option then good luck.  You have to choose
between two chests; one has an Item such as a Orange or Purple Jar, free life,
or a timed power up (these will be discussed later in the FAQ).  The other box
contains nothing, nadda, jack squat! You get nothing and you can't talk to the
the character who gave you the Jewel...Sucker=)

9. DON'T DAWDLE!!! Even though you don't see a timer the game does have one,
and if you are running out of time you will get a message saying hurry up and
the level slowly fills with water.  If you get stuck in the water then you're
dead.

10. And my last tip would be good luck! This game is fun, but can get extremely
frustrating at times.  My suggestion is to stick with the game ESPECIALLY if
you are a fan of the Classic Bubble Bobble series because as you reach the end
you will understand why it is called "The Story of Bubble Bobble 2".

----------------

------------
Walkthrough 
------------

LEVEL 1 - Castle

Stage 1:

Part 1: When the game begins I suggest you get a feel for it.  The controls
are not that difficult, but as with any game an alert gamer is an alive gamer.
The stage looks like you're on the outside of a castle.  First of all kill the
animals on the stage, I suggest firing a rainbow over its head and then procede
to jump on it with out pressing up or down so the Rainbow breaks and falls on 
the li'l bug guy.  You should collect in the first part the Red speed up shoes
and the orange pot (doubles your rainbow speed).  Destroy all enemies and
continue to the top of the screen.

Part 2: Oh no its looks like there are alot more enemies in this part, but 
don't worry because just like most of the other monsters in the game these guys
are complete idiots.  The first or second monster you kill should be your
purple jar (doubles the amount of Rainbows you fire).  Kill the rest of the 
monsters (preferably by the Rainbow over the head trick*) and voila once you 
reach the top of this level you are done.  Congratulations you've completed
your first stage of Rainbow Islands!

*this trick will be know known as the ROTH technique.


Stage 2:

Part 1: Now this should be fun.  This level try and complete your jewel
collection by using the ROTH technique.  So start out by killing the 5 guys on
the 5 platforms and slowly make your way up.  Kill the 2 lady bugs and 2 bees
and watch out for the Caterpillar coming down from the left side of the screen.
Once these guys are despatched head to the top of the level.

Part 2: When the stage starts you'll notice a caterpillar and a Lady bug
falling from the right side of the screen.  Try to kill them while they are 
still in the air because the Lady Bug is pretty quick on its feet.  As you 
continue to climb and use the ROTH technique to collect your Jewels you may 
come across some of the new helper items, which at this point can include 
orange and yellow stars that fire tiny stars in all directions when you collect
them and a Red Orb that when you pick it up it kills all enemies on the screen.
Kill the remaining Character and head to the top.

Part 3: Thought you were done didn't ya? Well from now on most levels will
atleast have 3 screens to climb, and sometimes even more. Now be very cautious
because the enemies will not stay on their platforms, but they will fall down 
towards you.  Fire off a few rainbows and drop a few baddies.  If you've been
collecting Jewels you may finish the word around this time and the game alerts
you by a tone and the words nice scrolling up the screen.  Head to the top of 
the stage and you are finished with the second Stage.


Stage 3:

Part 1:  A darker level that starts off with another Caterpillar and Ladybug
dropping in from the left side of the screen.  If you've allready collected the
word Rainbow quickly dispatch them with a rainbow to the eye and scroll up.  
Beware of Spiders because they can cause problems.  You may find a item the 
resembles a white ring with a green top.  Grab it and stars will rain down from
the top of the stage killing anything they touch.

Part 2: BE CAREFUL!..You'll have 3 guys heading for you right when you start
the level.  Avoid them and head to the left climbing the platforms to the top
of the screen, but watch out for the bees.

Part 3: OOOH lots of plat forms! This isn't to difficult since the falling
monsters get caught up on the tiny platforms.  Quickly dispose of them and head
to the top of the screen and you're finished with the third stage!


Stage 4:

Part 1: The level starts off with Bub in front of a small castle and two
spiders dropping down from both sides of the screen.  Run to one side and kill
that spider and either wait for the other spider to come to you or continue up.
Stick towards the left side of the screen and watch for a spider that could
land on your head.  Continue up to the top.

Part 2:  Run to the left side and completely avoid the falling enemies.  Once
you climb the tower you'll reach a point with small pegs of land and you'll see
a few spiders and bees.  Be careful because this can be a little difficult. 
Either kill the enemies or run from them and go to the top.

BOSS BATTLE: BIG SPIDER!

So you've made it to your first boss battle! Congratulations...This is a pretty
easy boss since he doesn't have much power.  Run to the left and climb the tiny
pillars and start attacking him before he starts moving.  At most it will take
you eight hits to defeat him and even less if you have a double rainbow.  
Congratulations you have passed the first level!


LEVEL 2 - TOY LAND!
*Coming Soon*

----------------

--------------
Miscellaneous
--------------

I. Special Items:

1. Orange and Purple Stars - Collect these and stars will be shot out in every
direction.  Orange stars fire out in 180 degrees and Purple Stars shoot out at
360 degrees.

2. Big white ring w/ Green top - Collect this and stars will fall from the top
of the screen destroying every enemy they touch

3. Red Orb - Collect this and it destroys every enemy on the screen.

4. Glass Jar w/ green Liquid - Collect this and four circles radiate out of a
Bub killing everything they touch.

5. Feather or Guitar looking thing* (If you know what this item is E-mail me) -
Collect this item and a fairy will circle around you.