------------------
Tidbits
------------------
This is actually The Last Ninja 2, which originally came out for the
Commodore 64 console, but was ported over to the NES with some changes.
1- Sound Effects when dealing damage
2- Simplified Graphics (NES is not capable of rasterizing pixels like
    a Commodore64 can, so graphics were simplified)
3- Harder enemies, since it was too easy to avoid them with the
    jump trick. This is done by just jumping to get around. Enemies
    can NOT hit you if you are airborne and just will keep bumping
    into you as you jump continuously. The sole exception is being
    hit by a shuriken.
4- New layout, some of the items and stages in the Commodore64 version
    are absent in the NES version, namely The Basement stage was
    simplified. Feel free to visit the Last Ninja Website
    http://lastninja.c64.org/
    Here you can see some walkthroughs for the Commodore64 versions.
5- Easier to get items, far easier than the C64 version.

-----------------
Controls
-----------------

NOTE~ Movement is done in an isometric view, pressing up makes you go
    walking at 45 degrees (i.e. at 1/2 between 1 and 2 on a clock)
    This is opposed to moving the joystick on a C64 to turn, then
    hold the direction to move.


		LEFT	UP			 .
		 *       *			/ \
		  *     *		       /___\
		   *   * 			| |
		    * *				| | North
		   *   *			| |
		  *     *			| |
		 *       *
		DOWN	RIGHT
[WHEN STILL]
A~ Attack with held weapon, punch if none is held
B~ Kick, use item, pick up an item
D-PAD~ Movement
A+SELECT~ Change items
B+SELECT~ Change weapons

[WHEN MOVING]
A~ Jump
B~ Nothing
D-PAD~ Movement

[UNIVERSAL KEYS]
START~ Pause the Game


------------------
Noobie Tips
------------------

Jumps are difficult to perform until you get used to the view aspect.
You are better off just running to your destination rather than fighting
    each and every enemy. Your goal is speed, not enemy anilation.
Use weapons to attack if you must do so.
Jump into the enemy to try to walk past them when they walk past you.
Do not ever use shurikens.
Grab burgers when you can.
Watch out for cops and thugs shurikens. They always throw them when you are 2/3's
    or more across the screen.
Remember you have to have collected the following items to beat the game
    These can easily be skipped and cause you to get stuck in the last room or at
    the Sewer stage, where an alligator guards the exit.
    Number Code, Shurikens, Bottle

------------------
Items & Weapons
------------------

Bottle~ Does nothing on its own
Bottle in Flames~ Used to kill the alligator in the Sewers.
Burger~ Gives a life when picked up, useless in inventory
Keys~ Used to open doors
Key Card~ Same effect as a key
Map~ This is a clue giving item that will flash certain things such as traps,
    areas to unlock or items to pick up (but only when you enter the room)
    This flash effect lasts for about 1/2 a second.
Meat~ Does nothing on its own
Meat w/Opium~ The panther dies when baited this

Numbers~ The passcode used to open the lock
Nunchukus~ Deals 25% more stun than a kick does
Nunchuk Piece~ Does nothing on its own
Shuriken~ You only get 9 in the game, deals a lot of damage but is integral
	to beat the game. You are best never using them.
Staff~ Deals 25% additional stun than a kick does
Sword~ Deals 50% additional stun than a kick does

-------------------
Enemies
-------------------

Thug~ Weakest of them all, throws deadly shurikens if you are far from them.
    Looks like a man in brown, unshaven and rugged.
WeaponArtist~ Has more health than a thug, can deal a lot more at close range.
    Holds either nunchukus or a sword.
Cop~ Deals the most of all enemies, and is hardest to knock down. Looks like
    a man in black with a cap, can also throw shurikens.

Tip: You deal damage in relation to each persons position. You deal the most
    damage if you hit your enemies back or side. You deal less if you are
    hitting their front , you facing sideways.


Walkthrough Section
--------------------
1~ Central Park
--------------------
From start go left and behind the curtains. In the next room you need
to go up and punch the white button. Afterwards go back down and you
will notice there is now a hole for you to drop down from. When you land
go and get the key and then exit left, behind the wall. Now you reach the
Central Plaza section. First go down and at the next screen go towards
the box and pick up the 9 shurikens. Now go down and go through the gate.
This screen features a juggler which will throw pins at you (they are
knives in the C64 version). Just keep moving and they should never hit you.
So just go down and fast! At the next screen, pick up the map, then scale up
the wall (just walk right to it and keep pressing up or left). Go down to the
next screen. Take care to not fall down or else you die and lose a life.
Carefully(!) jump across the two gaps and then pickup the staff. For now,
feel free to equip the staff as it deals enough stun to prevent most
encounters from being tradeoff attacks. Now go back 3 screens to the screen
where you picked up the shurikens. Go right one screen and then right one more.
Go into the ladies bathroom and press B. Now that you have 1/2 of a nunchuk,
go back left one screen then go up. Go left one then at this screen go to the
burger stand and pick a burger up for an extra life. Go up and at this screen
enter the ladies room and press B. Now you have a new weapon, nunchukus.
Now go down 2 screens and at this screen with a locked gate, ready the key
and press B next to the upper portion of the gate. Presto, it opened. Go left.
Watch out in this screen, remember the aspect of your view when you attempt
the jump. Try to jump onto the boat and then draw a diagonal line and wait
until you can easily draw a line onto the next land area. Jump off the boat
and onto the path, go down now. (this can easily frustrate players so
just keep trying and eventually you should be able to make it)
At this screen watch out for the killer bees. They hurt really bad if they
land clean on you for any extended period of time. The best strategy is to just
go left one screen then return back to this screen. Now quickly run up the
walkway where the bees are and jump over them. Make your way up to the
end where you see water and jump from the left most corner. If the bees
manage to start hitting you, JUMP to move! Once you reach the next screen,
ready your staff and at the edge nearest to the boat and press B to shove it.
Go back via jumping across the water on the bottom of the screen. Avoid the
bees and go left. Now this jump is critical. (It is FAR harder in the NES version than
in the C64 version FYI since your destination is 1/2 it was in the C64 version)
Align yourself against the fence and as soon as you can, jump onto the boat,
then IMMEDIATELY jump again across. If you mess this part up, you will miss
the landing area and end up having to either bump into the wall and fall
or be forced to walk off the boat since you are now stuck. Once you make it,
walk behind the wall up and enter the next stage.

--------------------
2~ City Streets
--------------------
From start, go up three screens. Make sure you walk near the curb in the 2nd or
else you risk getting hit in the head by the flowerpot lady. Go right a screen
after you reach the "EATS" buliding. Pick up the burger and proceed right. Now
go and pickup the bottle of wiskey near the wall in the next screen.
(In the C64 version, a drunkard stooped next to the bottle)
Now go down and make your way left to the next screen. Now walk into the small
portapotty (well it looks like one) and press B. Inside is a key.
Make your way back to the "EATS" building and go up. Same deal here, avoid walking
near the flowerpot lady or else... and go up one more screen. Now DON'T MOVE!
Wait until the light just turns RED (look for it in the upper right corner
of the screen), then walk across the street, or else you will be run over by a biker
and INSTANTLY killed. Proceed left one screen and at the end of the hallway,
kick the door and it will break down and you can enter, inside is the best weapon
to use, the sword. Make your way back to the streetlight screen and go up 1 screen
along the pedestrian way. Again, DON'T MOVE. This time wait until the streetlight
turns green and cross. Go up, behind the building, into the alley. At the next
screen, ignore the cop and just walk back down one screen. Use the key on the
manhole (stand below it to its right) and drop in it.

-------------------
3~ Sewers
-------------------
This is a nasty level since one portion of it relies on luck if you do not
know which way to go. There are NO clues and choosing a wrong way ends in death.
From start go up one screen. Be CAREFUL to not approach a pair of gray stones.
Doing so will make you be killed by a venomous spider that will drop on you.
Now go left one screen, via the tunnel. Go right one screen into the next tunnel.
Pick up the key and exit the screen. Now jump up the step and go left.
BE CAREFUL at this screen. you can fall off any edge. Jump across the pillar
and carefully walk across to the left, avoiding the stone, or else you die.
At this screen, use the key to open the grating and drop down. Now watchout for
the drunkard that approaches you. Go up one screen. Avoid the stone,
(here is what I mentioned earlier about the frustration portion)
and walk through the middle path. Walk left across the walkway into the next room.
In the next screen, walk through the left most path, then in the next room...
BE CAREFUL. Rats run down the path and instantly kill you if you touch them.
Jump above them, making your way up into the next screen. Go right one screen.
Quickly go to the leftmost path in the next screen. Now equip the bottle and
use it near the torch to ignite the bottle. Go up one screen. Throw the bottle
at the alligator and wait until it dies from the flames, the enter the tunnel.

------------------
4~ Office (this has a small portion of Basement but was edited out in NES version)
------------------
From start, take care of the thug and pick up the keycard and go up one screen.
* lol, looks just like a MasterCard doesn't it :p *
Now pick up the meat and go right one screen. Now dunk the meat into the box
of opium and it becomes tainted meat. Go right one more screen. This needs some
timing to prevent your death. Approach the panther, facing it and as it moves
its face up, quickly drop the meat and the panther will eat it and not you.
Now that its dead, use the keycard on the box near the door and enter the door.
Go down one screen and enter the door to your left, look at the computer
and obtain the number.(it would definately be wise to kill the thug first as
its shurikens hurt more than the last boss himself! 2= 1 dead ninja)
If you miss this step, you will be stuck at the final
battle with no code and will be frustrated to death trying to guess the
combination. Now exit this screen and go left one screen. Go through the left door
and at this screen, hit the little dot on the table to reveal a hidden door.
Enter and scale up the ladder in the next room. Enter the tunnel. Grab the burger
and go left through the back door. Now walk as close to the wall as possible.
RUN across the fan, do not stop or else you fall off and die. Open the grating and
enter the hole. Jump across the gap to your left and proceed left. Go left one
more screen and scale up the ladder. Do not bother trying to jump off and fight
the cop, its not possible. Just run for your life across the edge and go right.
Now just let the helicopter fly across, the jump onto the right edge and walk as
much to the right as possible. Then you will automatically fall off and go onto...

-----------------
5~ Mansion 
-----------------
Walk up and at the next screen, walk until you can press right and drop
into the window. Now go down 2 screens and then go into the door next to
the closed door. Grab the key and get back out, then back up one screen and use it
on the small door. Enter and grap the rope off the wall. Go back out and go up,
back to where you started. Enter the door on the left wall and use the rope on
the door way that appears black. Not doing this will cause instant death from
the fall. Enter and grab the key. Exit down. Go out from this room and use the
key on the door next to the entrance that you just came out from. Enter and
now go down the stairs and turn on the lights, or else...
In this room, avoid the walls as they cause instant death. Proceed through
the next room and at the steam engine, unequip your weapon and PUNCH the right
switch to divert the steam and enter the door. Congrats, it's time for the...

----------------
6~ Final Battle
----------------
To stand a chance at beating this level you need a few tools.
At least one shuriken and the number code. Make your way up to the 
worship room. Here is a pentagram with candles. The goal here is to unlock the
safe (using the number code), pickup the orb, kill Kunitoki,
and return the orb to the safe.
To kill Kunitoki, first lure him to the center of the pentagram
(you do not need to be perfect where he is, as long as he is clearly in it)
Have a candle or two prelit before you hit Kunitoki with a shuriken
(the only weapons that hurt Kunitoki) and then quickly press B beside the
candles before his POWER gauge recharges. If all 5 are lit before he recharges,
YAY! Return the orb and you won. If he recovered, you need to try again.
If you run out of shurikens, you are just plain SHIT OUTTA LUCK.